---
title: "Zcash Media 2022-2023 Grant"
status: "In-Progress"
amount: "1848655.0"
submitter: "[REDACTED] [REDACTED]"
email: "[REDACTED]"
date: "2022-06-18 05:57:10"
project_name: "Zcash Media 2022-2023 Grant"
summary: "We want to continue in our goal of building a voice for Zcash and an archive of lasting educational and entertaining resources."
total_grant_value: "1848655.0"
submitter_last_name: "[REDACTED]"
original_title: "Zcash Media 2022-2023 Grant"
labels:
  - APPLICATION WITHDRAWN
  - OPEN
---

## Terms and Conditions

- [X] I agree
- [ ] Link to this issue on forum - _do after application has been submitted_

### Application Metadata

- **Submitter First Name:**
  [REDACTED]
- **Submitter Last Name:**
  [REDACTED]
- **Submitter Email:**
  [REDACTED]
- **Status:**
  In-Progress
- **How did you learn about Zcash Community Grants:**
  We learned about it from a YouTube video that was posted from Zcon 2.
- **Original Title:**
  Zcash Media 2022-2023 Grant

- **Labels:**
  - APPLICATION WITHDRAWN
  - OPEN

### Project Overview

- **Project Name:**
  Zcash Media 2022-2023 Grant
- **Last Updated:**
  2022-06-18 05:57:10
- **Sponsorship Request:**
  No
- **Project Image (Public Gallery):**
  Play-Icon_Color.png
- **Project Summary:**
  We want to continue in our goal of building a voice for Zcash and an archive of lasting educational and entertaining resources.

### Project Description

- **Overview:**
  Our team believes that Zcash has the unique opportunity to bring a fair and private currency to those taking part in the fast arriving digital economy. However, to get to this future, a clear vision of the importance of ZEC needs to be painted so that hundreds of thousands of users can get on board and hundreds more developers / visionaries are motivated to contribute their efforts. Our mission is to build an educational hub for Zcash that helps communicate the vision for ZEC to the wider public through high-quality marketable and freely accessible videos, building on what we have started with our initial videos. With these videos as tools, we hope to increase global understanding of Zcash’s technology and mission, and inspire others to advocate for the ideals that Zcash stands for. Here we detail a few of the challenges Zcash faces that we aim to tackle. Lack of Wider Public Awareness Despite how widely crypto is discussed these days, it is still abundantly apparent that the general public does not know about Zcash, zero-knowledge proofs, the Zcash community, or how Zcash and its underlying technology applies to their lives. This lack of awareness prevents mass adoption of the numerous benefits enabled by Zcash: control over one’s financial privacy, self-custody of wealth, and freedom to send money to anyone in the world privately without a trusted middleman. In addition, the lack of awareness prevents general audiences, as well as those in the crypto community, from getting excited about future applications of Zcash and its technology (e.g., Zcash shielded assets, L1 scalability, privacy preserving communication applications, Zcash and DeFi). This could lead to Zcash remaining “under the radar” indefinitely and missing out on user adoption to other privacy preserving cryptocurrency technologies. This is a major risk in open source projects since community size and user adoption are major protective factors against competitive projects. Difficulty in Onboarding New Users Beyond the problem of a lack of awareness about Zcash, there is a steep learning curve for those that are interested in educating themselves about Zcash. This is due to the newness and technological complexity of Zcash, let alone cryptocurrencies in general. We believe this is a major problem that needs to be addressed in order to fulfill the promises of Zcash to be accessible to all. There should be as few barriers as possible to becoming a knowledgeable participant in the Zcash technology and community. Similar to a successful democracy relying on an informed populace, the success and mass adoption of Zcash will be facilitated by reducing information asymmetry that exists between new and established participants. Focus on Price Rather than Fundamentals As we all know the “wen moon” video content creates a toxic and unstable climate, often reinforced by inaccurate YouTubers who feed off of this viewership. And this issue extends to mainstream media as well. This obsession with price is an existential threat to the cryptocurrency industry, because it is the central distraction from the ideologies that could improve our world (i.e. decentralization, improved coordination, economic freedom, consent, etc). This is why accurate, balanced, high quality videos are incredibly valuable. When scams and price news are fogging up the space and when market crashes have people worried, we need clarifying information that acts as a guiding light for navigating this complex landscape. Ideas change the world and Zcash embodies the ideas that are central to understanding the potential of what could be built. Zcash Media has a huge opportunity to consolidate the many incredible ideas floating around the Zcash space and synthesize them into digestible content. How Big of a Problem Would It Be to Not Solve This Problem? The failure of privacy-preserving technology to become the default for the various aspects of digital human existence would be catastrophically bad for human society. We believe that without education on the nuanced privacy issues necessary to protect our impending digital world, many average people and regulators may not understand these fundamental issues and may then vote or invest in dangerous choices. Education is the most important investment to protect against ignorant decision making. In addition, owing to the especially tricky messaging around privacy and finance, we believe without carefully planned and executed education on why Zcash is good for society, it may not reach large scale adoption.
- **Proposed solution:**
  Incase the link above does not work (it didn't work for us last time) we are reattaching the link to the pdf version of our proposal here. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jb22HYfXgkYNqEDnRBd3VNp2knUMLO5F/view?usp=sharing To overcome the lack of awareness about Zcash and help new and existing users better understand Zcash’s current / future uses, we propose the creation of 12 new videos. The completed videos would be released once a month on Zcash Media’s channels with ongoing marketing in support of the growth of this content. High Integrity Content As we demonstrated with our first two videos, we believe it is vital that we uphold the Zcash ethos of quality work and ensure that any current or future ZEC holders associate Zcash with the quality and high integrity efforts that Zcash developers maintain. Our educational efforts should support this not only with the quality of the production, but also with the reliability of the resources/ideas we provide viewers. Thus, Zcash Media aims to build a reputation where, like MasterClass, audiences are ensured that thoughtful effort went into the production of reliable and balanced content. Key Features Some key features we aim to include are: Well synthesized ideas necessary for understanding and navigating this complex topic (this is the most time consuming challenge since it involves 4-5 people focusing on clarifying, scripting, and editing accurate materials), Consistent content releases to grow followers, Content that is freely available on multiple platforms, Entertainment value to the edits that keep the user interested, Content that opens a direct line for ‘vision communication’ with Zcash fans/potential Zcash fans, Frequent communication with audiences to answer any questions and direct them to follow up resources (connecting them with ZF/ECC educational materials). A growing platform on YouTube and Twitter that can serve as a digital meeting place for the Zcash community to exchange ideas
- **Solution Format:**
  The solution format will be videos released on Zcash Media’s YouTube and Odysee channels, as well as short form videos and content released on Zcash Media’s Twitter.
- **Dependencies:**
  We are not dependent on any other entity to complete our grant. However, we welcome coordinating with ZF, ECC, ZCG, and the community in our effort to share up to date and accurate educational materials, as well as support marketing initiatives.
- **Technical approach:**
  Stages of Production In the vein of similar quality shows like Netflix’s Explained , we plan to treat the production of our content in the same manner as they treat this kind of TV series production. For our long form content, there are four phases, Development (Pre-Production), Production (capturing any remaining content), Post Production (the ongoing editing), and Distribution/Marketing (driving awareness). And in order to improve engagement during the waiting periods between our long form content, we will also be producing ongoing short form marketing content. Workflow Development Prepping / Transcribing / Logging Footage / Content Database creation Research: Collecting background knowledge Season Planning: Ensure that each episode in the 12 videos of the year offers non-redundant, high value information that fits together into the greater arc of the season Writing Scripts Using Content Database to identify interview quotes for use in episodes Analysis of community interests / Target audiences Topics for episodes established accordingly Production Interviews (In person or Zoom) B-roll (any secondary footage - backgrounds for holograms, lifestyle, etc) Post Production Logic Editor (Rough cut where story is clearly outlined) Sourcing B-roll / historical footage Finishing Editors (Visual Effects, Color, Motion Graphics, Music, Placeholder Animatics - all resulting in Picture Lock Cut) Social Media Content Editor (ongoing short form content creation) Animation Music Sound Design Voiceover Final Conform (Finishing editors perform this task and release to Marketing) Distribution / Marketing Twitter Content Calendar designed to elaborate and provide complementary content for the release of each month’s video Writing high integrity social posts (goal of providing additional value to followers with interesting information) Social Media Posts (created by producer, designer, and social content editor) YouTube/Odysee Optimization Materials and Testing Title, Thumbnail, Description, End Cards Ongoing A/B testing and comparison research Topic analysis for upcoming content (what are the keywords, searches, questions that will help audiences find our content and get the answers they want) Paid Media (testing various ads and continuing to improve targeting) Analytics across all platforms Press Releases (when necessary for newsworthy content) Events (e.g., Twitter spaces) Influencer campaigns / outreach Community Management Target Audiences As with our last grants, our target audiences remain the same. We aim to prioritize crypto newbies (Tier 0) and average current crypto fans (Tier 1). For examples of this, note our first video Future Money: What Is Zcash? as an example of targeting crypto newbies. And our second video about John Dobbertin, which targeted current crypto fans. For this proposed year of videos, we will largely stick with Tier 0 and Tier 1 audiences, while future work may focus on more specific or high skill topics. We have already begun dissecting the data from our first two video releases, leading to analyses found in our previous marketing report - 220517_ZM HL Post Launch Analytics Report_PUBLIC.pdf We will continue to use this data to refine our target audiences. This will shape not only the content of the videos we make, but also our release strategies. Distribution We intend on releasing 12 videos (one per month). However, it is possible that improved workflows could allow us to produce videos faster and speed up the release schedules. Nonetheless, for the estimates in this grant we want to set expectations at an achievable level (1 video per month for 12 months). Our long form content will continue to be distributed on YouTube and Odysee and our short form social media content will target primarily Twitter. Across these platforms we will continue to perform tests in an effort to optimize our distribution, using metrics such as click-through rate and view duration to measure the effectiveness of these distribution experiments (see Evaluation section). The reason we have decided to target Twitter as our primary platform to complement our YouTube/Odysee channels is because although we had moderate success on Facebook and Instagram in our previous releases, we want to focus our efforts and learn how to grow Zcash Media to be a large voice on Crypto Twitter. Gaining a large audience on Twitter would greatly enable us to share our ideas and compete with the most influential voices in the crypto industry. We will dual post everything that goes on Twitter to our Telegram channel in order to be able to share our announcements with the various Zcash and other crypto communities we are engaged with. Marketing In support of our previous two episodes, we released a wave of marketing materials and ran ads that resulted in hundreds of thousands of views, and over 2k subscribers in less than a month on both our YouTube and Twitter. However, as we detailed in the analytics report above, we also tried certain marketing strategies that did not work out as well as we’d hoped. For instance, the poor market conditions meant that the Telegram channels we advertised in were quieter than we had hoped (and those that remained in the channels were hoping to discuss price, not education). We also released two press releases to generate awareness for our first two videos since they marked the launch of our channel and the reveal of John Dobbertin. Although the press releases were shown to be very effective, in this next phase we will focus more on organic community growth on YouTube and Twitter and use targeted press releases to amplify any future newsworthy events. Due to the time consuming nature of building a responsive community through grassroots efforts - individually messaging community members, responding to feedback, and hosting events - we have allocated resources in our budget estimate to spend more on people and less on ads, including hiring a community manager to keep up with the thousands of engagements that occur during the release of our videos. High Value Marketing Content As much as we believe our videos should be high integrity and valuable to our viewers, we aim to have our marketing offer similar value. We want to go beyond awareness based posting and strive to offer new and helpful insights in our social media content. We currently plan to release 1 month long campaigns on Twitter in support of the topic of that month's video. Rather than experience redundant content, if viewers follow us on both Twitter and YouTube they should experience complementary content that delves deeper into the ideas behind that month’s topic. We therefore built a similar workflow for our short-form social media content (for an overview of this workflow, please view the Milestones and Deliverables section). In short, the team will research and ideate content based on the topic of the month, a writer will work to draft posts, and a small editing team will recreate their ideas in photo and video forms. Each month we will host a Twitter Spaces, for instance after the release of a video, to serve as a gathering place to discuss the ideas for that month’s topic. We will also enlist educated Zcashers such as Rekodi to respond to audiences and direct them to helpful resources on Zcash and its related topics. Quarterly Analytics Reports Based on the feedback on the forums, the community responded well to seeing our analytics reflections last time. We want to continue to involve the community in our thinking and the natural changes that develop over the course of a long term project such as this. We will provide quarterly marketing reports that will summarize our channels’ analytics and detail both the effective and ineffective strategies we’ve applied. We will continue to leave room for adjusting strategies and reallocating resources as circumstances change over time.

### Requested Grant Amount

- **Amount:**
  1848655.0

### Budget Breakdown

- **Hardware/Software budget:**
  0.0
- **Hardware/Software justification:**
  We have incorporated our complete budget into the services category and detailed it in our attachments.
- **Services budget:**
  1848655.0
- **Services justification:**
  Zcash Media Budget for 12 Episodes We have prepared budgets comprising the work required for 1) planning and administrative tasks (season story plans, contracts, templates, standard operating procedures, task assignment, billing, payroll, scheduling, project management, etc.) and 2) per episode production budget. The planning/administrative budget is for $86,384 and the per episode production budget is $146,941/episode. We have planned on doing 12 episodes, bringing the total cost for making and marketing 12 episodes to $1,744,785. In total, this grant proposal is therefore requesting $1,848,655 over the course of ~14 months (~$132,046/month). Please find a detailed breakdown of our estimated budget here: Zcash: 12 Episode Budget The calculator in the spreadsheet works by estimating how many hours each person will work for the different tasks associated with the planning, production, and distribution of the episodes (right side of each tab) and then adding them up (left side of each tab). The budget requested is our best estimate to produce and distribute 12 episodes that maintain our cinema-level standards that led to our first videos being well received across numerous audience types. It is always a challenge to accurately predict the costs for production and distribution, especially for 12 unique episodes, which may take over a year to complete. Also, to do as much as possible to minimize costs, the three main managers of the project, Jeff, Natasha, and David have all budgeted themselves at a 55% discount from their $150/hr rate, resulting in an hourly rate of $67.50. Investing in Efficiency and Sustainability In addition to the actual planning, creation, and distribution of the episodes themselves, a major goal of ours in this grant is to develop an assembly line process whereby we can make videos more efficiently to lower costs and speed up production. The funds received from this grant, if approved, would give us the resources to be able to dedicate the time and energy necessary to create more and more efficient systems for creating dozens more videos over the years. This is the major goal of the Executive Producer of this project, Jeff Hammerton, co-owner of 37 Laines. While Jeff was already the main cinematographer for the initial Zcash Media shoots, most of his time outside of shooting was dedicated to the business and administrative aspects (e.g., accounting, payroll, taxes) of the initial grants and other 37 Laines’ projects. However, in this grant, we have budgeted for a full-time Line Producer to handle the administrative tasks so that Jeff’s main focus will be to systematize Zcash Media’s operations for creating high quality Zcash educational content. (Note: We have included an ending Operations Report as our last milestone so that our team can report on the effectiveness of these efforts). We also built the budget to bring in additional writers and editors that were not part of our previous grant and to give them the time we thought would be necessary to maintain the quality of our previous videos. Although it may be possible to use fewer people by relying more heavily on the same team that produced the previous two videos, we wanted to promote an “active decentralization” process. It is our hope that Zcash Media can be a hub where many different creators can come to build and distribute their works that will help maintain and diversify Zcash Media over time. But in order to do this, we need to build the necessary systems to manage a growing group of creators and also train the ones we bring in to work with us. It is only through investment in sustainability and decentralization that Zcash Media will be producing content not just for one year, but for many years. Each writer, editor, and other creator we have interviewed (and have already begun bringing into our system) has expressed great enthusiasm at being able to work for a cause as strong as Zcash. It is a significant goal of ours for this grant that by the end of it, we have multiple new members of Zcash Media that can independently and efficiently produce continued Zcash educational content. With all that said, we find it nonetheless helpful to look at a few key numbers to add some context to the budget, beyond the stated goals above. Our prior grants comprised ~$450,000 to produce and distribute two episodes, equalling ~$225,000 per episode. As part of these grants we collected a large amount of footage in the hopes of making future videos at lower costs. In this grant, our cost per episode is $146,941. This is a 35% reduction in the cost per episode. With the long-term sustainability that this current grant would afford us, we aim to continue bringing down per episode costs in the future. Analysis of Zcash Media as part of Zcash Community Grants Another key number that we have looked at is the fraction of the total ZCG budget that this grant could represent. As Zcash community members and holders ourselves, the last thing we want to do is take away funding from other third-party grant applicants that will help grow Zcash. We therefore analyzed ZCG’s current ZEC holdings and future receivable ZEC over a thirteen month period starting July 1, 2022 to August 1, 2023 using the Zcash Community Grants dashboard . Please note these numbers are to be taken with a grain of salt since ZCG’s grant liabilities can change frequently, and may change from the time we performed the following calculations. The dashboard indicates that ZCG currently holds ~125,000 ZEC and given the current Zcash inflation rate and block reward to ZCG, over the thirteen months starting July 1, 2022, ZCG will receive an additional ~118,992 ZEC. The current ZEC holdings as well as the receivable ZEC through August 1, 2023 are therefore ~368,277 ZEC. The dashboard also lists that all outstanding grant liabilities are hedged with ~$2,400,000 that is solely earmarked for paying out outstanding grants, and there is $245,815 USD in reserve. Similar to the dashboard, we calculated the dollar amount of ZEC that ZCG will have if the price changes by various levels, and noted what percentage of the ZCG budget Zcash Media will take up below: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ub7IMNABqbvi5PkpJK4hWk5k4bqwNxmxxbLql-era_4/edit?usp=sharing In a worst case scenario, where ZEC drops to below its prior cycle’s low of ~$20, Zcash Media will take up ~30% of the ZCG budget over the course of thirteen months. If current prices are maintained, or eventually go up over the course of the same time period, Zcash Media will take up less than ~7% of the ZCG budget. Comparing Marketing Spend Across Different Fields Lastly, as part of our analysis of how we fit into the overall ZCG budget, we looked at how much different types of businesses spend on marketing. From our research ( 1 , 2 , 3 ), the numbers really range all over the place, with the US Small Business Association recommending an average of 7-8% of gross revenue spent on marketing. Surveys show that some businesses spend as little as 3% of revenue on marketing, while sometimes, during product launches for instance, marketing can make up 80-120% of revenue! Also, on average, Business to Consumer (B2C) businesses spend around 10-11% of their revenue on marketing. These numbers are especially hard to parse given that different industries have different recommended amounts to spend on marketing (for instance, consumer goods averages 20% on marketing due to its need to reach a large number of people and also being an industry with many competitive products). Since ZEC is trying to be a global currency for the entire world, we believe it is in a category that requires strong brand awareness, especially given the highly competitive landscape of the cryptocurrency space nowadays. As part of our research, we also found an interesting analysis of Software as a Service companies performed by Tom Tunguz of Redpoint Ventures. He found that SaaS companies often spend a very high fraction of their revenue on marketing within the first few years of founding (average of 100% of revenue), with marketing spend decreasing to a low of 40% 10-25 years after founding. This is in part due to the fact that revenue is lower at the beginning of the company (with “revenue” coming from venture dollars) while over time, revenue goes up, so marketing spend as a portion of revenue decreases. Although SaaS companies may not be the perfect analogy for Zcash, it is nonetheless helpful to show that certain types of tech businesses really go all out marketing their product to find customers, and that the success of the marketing and product can increase revenue over time, eventually making marketing a lower percentage of the revenue. The tables we included above show a similar trend in relation to ZCG and Zcash Media. If revenue in this case is considered the ZCG budget, then when revenue is low, due to the ZEC price being low, Zcash Media (or any given grantee) will take up a larger portion of the ZCG budget. Presumably as Zcash continues to improve its technology, and the collective marketing efforts of Zcash help to bring ZEC to new users, ZCG’s “revenue” would increase due to an increase in the price of ZEC. Put another way, it makes sense that when a product is still relatively new, revenue is low, and in order to increase revenue, marketing and product development efforts take up a relatively high percentage of revenue. Without these investments at early stages, revenue will not stand as good a chance to grow as the product is on the market for longer. Choosing the Type of Marketing We note that marketing can take many shapes and forms and that we are focusing mainly on long form educational content. We chose to focus on this because unlike consumer products, like a type of shampoo, that everybody understands, ZEC and crypto in general are still a mystery to most of the world. Only 4% of the world’s population has ever used crypto, and even of those people, many profess to not understand it. Therefore, when introducing something so radically new to the world, we believe it is best to start with clear and thorough educational content on what it is, how it works, and why it matters, which can allow other forms of marketing to be more effective over time. We have seen how effective the educational approach can be with people like Andreas Antonopoulos building catalogs of YouTube videos to explain Bitcoin and other projects. And this is in part what inspired us to bring a similar vision of a library of educational content to Zcash. Previously Captured Footage While we were capturing our original footage, we used the opportunities with each of these remarkable interviewees to capture additional content with each of them. This resulted in over 30 hours of footage. Over the past month, one of our team members created a database of all this content and confirmed that we have ample footage to create many of the remaining videos for this season without much additional production. We have therefore budgeted much less for production trips in this proposal. Capturing Limited New Footage We have included line items in the budget for filming interviews at Zcon (we hope this will give us access to many exciting interviews in one trip), as well as 2 additional short trips to cover relevant additional interviews or footage.
- **Compensation budget:**
  0.0
- **Compensation justification:**
  We put our entire budget into the services category and detailed it in our attachments.
- **Startup funding required:**
  Yes
- **Startup funding explanation:**
  Planning and Administrative tasks (season story plans, contracts, templates, standard operating procedures, task assignment, billing, payroll, scheduling, project management)
- **Startup funding amount:**
  232323.0
- **Total proposed grant value:**
  1848655.0

### Team Members

- **Project Lead:**
  37 Laines (Zcash Media)
- **Background:**
  37 Laines - Production Company 37 Laines is an award winning film production company run by Natasha Mynhier and Jeff Hammerton. Out of our offices in Santa Monica, CA, 37 Laines produces high quality creative work and science communication content, including documentaries, branded content, commercials, short films, music videos, digital content, web-series, and live events. Our team has created content for brands like Netflix, Marvel, ESPN, and Vogue, is currently producing a documentary about backcountry adventure skiing presented by North Face, and won Gold at the 2020 Cannes Young Directors Awards for our short film, In A Beat . Examples of 37 Laines work can be found here: https://www.37laines.com/ . The 37 Laines team members that would be contributing to this grant are listed here: Management Team Director / Producer - Natasha Mynhier Overall vision, interfaces with Zcash Ecosystem, supports throughout entire process - scripting, production, editing, and marketing Producer / Writer / Advisor - David Boyer Crypto expertise, overall vision, interfaces with Zcash Ecosystem, provides notes on cuts and marketing initiatives, supports community management and events Producer / Operations Manager - Jeff Hammerton Maximizes efficiency, coordination, and quality of the production systems through research, feedback, designing workflows, and building project management assets. Line Producer - Lisa McGuire Overseeing all aspects of schedule, budget, payroll, task management, and handles legal and clearances Full Length Content Team Writers - Paul Dallman and Joe Gentle (two others on rotation) Outlines topics, writes scripts, interfaces with logic editor Researcher / Editor - Shawn Provides research to writers, edits scripts for accuracy Logic Editor - Edgar Sardarian Creates rough cut, adds in interviews, interfaces with writers and finishing editors to ensure a logically accurate cut Story Editors - Anthony Parisi and Pete Szijarto Adds entertainment value to the edit, creates motion graphics, marries all aspects when finalized, fine tuning, adds final voiceover, uploads for broadcast Animation - Very True Story Creates animations at the direction of editor and director VFX - Anthony Parisi Hologram effects and any other touches/special effects Sound Design and Mix - Shaughnessy Hare and Zack Howard Design, edit and mix all aspects of sound Color - Arianna Shining Star Builds color for every episode, LUTs for each interview Distribution and Marketing Team Social Media Producer - Claire Glassford Oversees and coordinates marketing team, manages tasks, oversees short form content creation, organizes and supports story creation for social media content Digital Strategist - Jess Carroll Posts/optimizes YouTube videos, manages targeted ads, manages Sprout Social, creates subtitles, strategizes YouTube growth and networks with relevant influencers, creates quarterly analytics reports Growth Strategist and Community Building - Kevan Shah Manages Zcash Telegram, plans and hosts topical monthly Twitter spaces, manages events, strategizes Twitter growth and networks with relevant influencers, supports creation of monthly Twitter story arcs, supports community management Community Manager - Rekodi Engages with community daily (YouTube/Twitter), tracks sentiments/interests, strategizes Twitter influencer coordination, researches relevant social media content/events to be utilized by content teams, supports events Design - Autumn Schrock Creates all social posts, templates, logos, and design elements. Also supports motion graphics for main content and social media content Social Content Editor - Multiple Editors on Rotation creating all social cutdowns, trailers, etc.

### Funding History

- **Previous funding:**
  Yes
- **Previous funding details:**
  Here are our 3 previous grants: https://grants.zfnd.org/proposals/1550354158-zcash-short-documentary https://zcashgrants.org/gallery/25215916-53ea-4041-a3b2-6d00c487917d/23252802/ https://grants.zfnd.org/proposals/871665385
- **Other funding sources:**
  No

### Risks and Evaluation

- **Execution risks:**
  Fortunately, our proposal is not of an engineering or extremely technical nature and all technical aspects of the project have been done for previous media campaigns 37 Laines has produced (see Applicant Background). In our last grant proposal, we mentioned an execution risk of being reliant on interviewees agreeing to be interviewed. However even this risk is mitigated this time since we are mostly working from footage we captured in the last grant. Our greatest challenge this round will be maintaining a consistent production speed. This means our team needs to be prepared to maintain coordination over a longer duration which offers new operational challenges. We have attempted to mitigate this risk by adding two additional producers to the project (Jeff and Lisa) who are focusing almost exclusively on operations.
- **Unintended Consequences:**
  By highlighting different community members in our videos, we risk an unintended downside if anyone featured in our videos were to have something negative in their history or future come to light. Since our videos would associate them with Zcash, the negative attention they receive might reflect on Zcash. However, this is a risk for any media project and is not especially unique for what we propose here.
- **Evaluation plan:**
  As witnessed during the production process of our previous two videos, we frequently solicited feedback from leaders throughout the Zcash Ecosystem as well as the interviewees. We also plan to continue to solicit feedback from interested community members during the ideation and post-production phases of our workflow in order to improve the quality of our content. Additionally, we will work with people more familiar with the technical components represented in our videos to ensure their accuracy and understandability. For instance, last time we worked with Sean Bowe on our animations to ensure they accurately represented things such as what happens when you make a Zcash transaction on your phone. Once finalized videos are distributed, evaluation metrics include: engagement numbers for posted videos (i.e., likes, shares, views), YouTube/Odysee subscriber counts, and similar internet engagement metrics. This will be documented in quarterly analytics reports such as the report we released at the completion of our first two videos. Below we outline proposed goals for distribution metrics and channel growth, which are based off of the stats from our first two videos. However as crypto markets continue to deteriorate for the time being, these stats may become increasingly challenging to reach. Nonetheless, we will optimize every video we make to not only be widely shareable upon release, but contain relevant information for many crypto cycles to come. Also, as our channels get larger, it may become easier to gain new subscribers, potentially counteracting the effect of a bear market and leading us to exceed our KPIs. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bu7iuRHG2YqehAeR5z5OsV5jppFyTTYsopWBOYTN-40/edit?usp=sharing

### Project Timeline

- **Project timeline determination:**
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18_hAhOnCrQlsw4hBvgGodRRW9Ut_MdJWx_LtJoPWk_A/edit?usp=sharing Based on our experience in our previous grants we spent the last 2 months planning an operational system that could support the increased scale of production. We detail it in the above table, as well as the expected cadence.

### Milestone 1

- **Amount:**
  146941.0
- **Expected Completion Date:**
  10/28/2022

  - **Deliverables:**
    - Final Episode 1 Delivered to ZF

### Milestone 2

- **Amount:**
  146941.0
- **Expected Completion Date:**
  11/25/2022

  - **Deliverables:**
    - Final Episode 2 Delivered to ZF

### Milestone 3

- **Amount:**
  146941.0
- **Expected Completion Date:**
  12/23/2022

  - **Deliverables:**
    - Final Episode 3 Delivered to ZF

### Milestone 4

- **Amount:**
  146941.0
- **Expected Completion Date:**
  2/3/2023

  - **Deliverables:**
    - Final Episode 4 Delivered to ZF
    - Analytics Report 1 (Ep. 1-3) Delivered to Community

### Additional Milestones

- **Additional Milestones:**
  Yes

### Submission Date

- **Submission Date:**
  2022-06-18 05:57:10

### File Attachments

- **Zcash_Media_2022-2023_Grant.pdf**: [Additional documentation]

